README.md, before:

This directory builds a set of VMs that may be used for easily testing Continuent Tungsten solutions. You will need to have [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) and [vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com/) installed before you proceed.

# Quick Start

You can repeat this process with any of the examples subdirectories. View the README in that directory for more information. If you would like to do a manual install of Tungsten, remove 'clusterData => $clusterData,' from the manifests/default.pp file.

## Using VirtualBox

This process will start a 3-node cluster using 64-bit Virtualbox images.

    $ localhost> vagrant box add centos-64-x64 http://developer.nrel.gov/downloads/vagrant-boxes/CentOS-6.4-x86_64-v20130731.box
    $ localhost> git clone https://github.com/continuent/continuent-vagrant.git
    $ localhost> cd continuent-vagrant
    $ localhost> git submodule update --init
    $ localhost> cp ~/continuent-tungsten-2.0.1-1002.noarch.rpm ./downloads/continuent-tungsten-latest.noarch.rpm
    $ localhost> cp examples/Vagrantfile.3.vbox ./Vagrantfile
    $ localhost> cp examples/STD/default.pp ./manifests/
    
The launch.sh script will start the images and install the software.
    
    $ localhost> ./launch.sh

Once you are finished with the instances

    $ localhost> vagrant destroy -f
    
## Using EC2

Prior to starting, make sure the 'default' security group allows SSH access from your machine.

    $ localhost> vagrant plugin install vagrant-aws  
    $ localhost> vagrant box add dummy https://github.com/mitchellh/vagrant-aws/raw/master/dummy.box
    $ localhost> git clone https://github.com/continuent/continuent-vagrant.git
    $ localhost> cd continuent-vagrant
    $ localhost> git submodule update --init
    $ localhost> cp ~/continuent-tungsten-2.0.1-1002.noarch.rpm ./downloads/continuent-tungsten-latest.noarch.rpm
    $ localhost> cp examples/Vagrantfile.3.ec2 ./Vagrantfile
    $ localhost> cp examples/STD/default.pp ./manifests/
    
The launch.sh script will start the images and install the software. Update the files at the top of Vagrantfile to match your environment. Modify the GROUP value if you are working with multiple continuent-vagrant directories.

    $ localhost> ./launch.sh

Once you are finished with the instances

    $ localhost> vagrant destroy -f

# Working with other modules

## Using puppetlabs/mysql

The continuent/tungsten module includes a very basic MySQL installation. If you would like to use the more advanced version, you may include the continuent\_vagrant::puppetlabs\_mysql class.

Download the mysql module into your Vagrant directory

    $> git clone https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-mysql.git modules/mysql
    
Update the Class["continuent_vagrant"] declaration and remove the installMySQL setting from the Class["tungsten"] declaration.

    class { "continuent_vagrant" : clusterData => $clusterData, installPuppetLabsMySQL => true}
    
The result will be something like this if we are using the MasterSlave example.

    $clusterData = {
    	"east" => {
    		"topology" => "master-slave",
    		"master" => "db1",
    		"slaves" => "db2,db3",
    	},
    }
    
    class { "continuent_vagrant" : clusterData => $clusterData, installPuppetLabsMySQL => true}

    class { 'tungsten' :
    	installSSHKeys => true,
    	replicatorRepo => stable,
    	installReplicatorSoftware => true,
    	clusterData => $clusterData,
    }

# Known Issues

## sudo: sorry, you must have a tty to run sudo

This can happen if the provisioning process runs to soon after the server starts. Just run `provision.sh` and it will try again.

## /usr/lib/ruby/1.9.1/rubygems/custom_require.rb:36:in `require': cannot load such file -- mkmf (LoadError)

This occurs when installing the vagrant-aws plugin on some Ubuntu versions. To resolve install the ruby1.9.1-dev package
on Centos/Redhat install

       sudo yum install -y gcc ruby-devel libxml2 libxml2-devel libxslt libxslt-devel

Commit message:

Add notes about using vagrant-cachier Use the latest version of the continuent/tungsten module

README.md, after:

This directory builds a set of VMs that may be used for easily testing Continuent Tungsten solutions. You will need to have [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) and [vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com/) installed before you proceed.

# Quick Start

You can repeat this process with any of the examples subdirectories. View the README in that directory for more information. If you would like to do a manual install of Tungsten, remove 'clusterData => $clusterData,' from the manifests/default.pp file.

## Using VirtualBox

This process will start a 3-node cluster using 64-bit Virtualbox images.

    $ localhost> vagrant box add centos-64-x64 http://developer.nrel.gov/downloads/vagrant-boxes/CentOS-6.4-x86_64-v20130731.box
    $ localhost> git clone https://github.com/continuent/continuent-vagrant.git
    $ localhost> cd continuent-vagrant
    $ localhost> git submodule update --init
    $ localhost> cp ~/continuent-tungsten-2.0.1-1002.noarch.rpm ./downloads/continuent-tungsten-latest.noarch.rpm
    $ localhost> cp examples/Vagrantfile.3.vbox ./Vagrantfile
    $ localhost> cp examples/STD/default.pp ./manifests/
    
The launch.sh script will start the images and install the software.
    
    $ localhost> ./launch.sh

Once you are finished with the instances

    $ localhost> vagrant destroy -f
    
## Using EC2

Prior to starting, make sure the 'default' security group allows SSH access from your machine.

    $ localhost> vagrant plugin install vagrant-aws  
    $ localhost> vagrant box add dummy https://github.com/mitchellh/vagrant-aws/raw/master/dummy.box
    $ localhost> git clone https://github.com/continuent/continuent-vagrant.git
    $ localhost> cd continuent-vagrant
    $ localhost> git submodule update --init
    $ localhost> cp ~/continuent-tungsten-2.0.1-1002.noarch.rpm ./downloads/continuent-tungsten-latest.noarch.rpm
    $ localhost> cp examples/Vagrantfile.3.ec2 ./Vagrantfile
    $ localhost> cp examples/STD/default.pp ./manifests/
    
The launch.sh script will start the images and install the software. Update the files at the top of Vagrantfile to match your environment. Modify the GROUP value if you are working with multiple continuent-vagrant directories.

    $ localhost> ./launch.sh

Once you are finished with the instances

    $ localhost> vagrant destroy -f

# Using puppetlabs/mysql for MySQL installation

The continuent/tungsten module includes a very basic MySQL installation. If you would like to use the more advanced version, you may include the continuent\_vagrant::puppetlabs\_mysql class.

Download the mysql module into your Vagrant directory

    $> git clone https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-mysql.git modules/mysql
    
Update the Class["continuent_vagrant"] declaration and remove the installMySQL setting from the Class["tungsten"] declaration.

    class { "continuent_vagrant" : clusterData => $clusterData, installPuppetLabsMySQL => true}
    
The result will be something like this if we are using the MasterSlave example.

    $clusterData = {
    	"east" => {
    		"topology" => "master-slave",
    		"master" => "db1",
    		"slaves" => "db2,db3",
    	},
    }
    
    class { "continuent_vagrant" : clusterData => $clusterData, installPuppetLabsMySQL => true}

    class { 'tungsten' :
    	installSSHKeys => true,
    	replicatorRepo => stable,
    	installReplicatorSoftware => true,
    	clusterData => $clusterData,
    }
    
# Using the vagrant-cachier plugin

The vagrant-cachier plugin can keep packages on your machine so they don't need to be downloaded multiple times.

    $ localhost > vagrant plugin install vagrant-cachier
    
Add this to your Vagrantfile after the 'config.vm.network' line.

    if Vagrant.has_plugin?("vagrant-cachier")
      # Configure cached packages to be shared between instances 
      # of the same base box.
      config.cache.scope = :box
    end
    
You may get errors the first time you run the `./launch.sh` script. Try starting up your servers with `vagrant up` the first time. The `./launch.sh` script should run properly after that.

# Known Issues

## sudo: sorry, you must have a tty to run sudo

This can happen if the provisioning process runs to soon after the server starts. Just run `provision.sh` and it will try again.

## /usr/lib/ruby/1.9.1/rubygems/custom_require.rb:36:in `require': cannot load such file -- mkmf (LoadError)

This occurs when installing the vagrant-aws plugin on some Ubuntu versions. To resolve install the ruby1.9.1-dev package
on Centos/Redhat install

       sudo yum install -y gcc ruby-devel libxml2 libxml2-devel libxslt libxslt-devel
